---
layout: post
title: Will computer dreams?
date: 2024-01-05 00:00:00-0000
categories: bookreviews
---

Dreams are a mysterious and complex psychological phenomenon that has yet to be fully understood. While the exact mechanisms of dreaming are still debated in the scientific community, a common theory suggests that dreams result from the brain's integration and interpretation of randomly generated electrical signals and memory fragments during sleep.

If we were to analogize our everyday behaviors to computer modeling, it seems that the brain can unleash its constraints on the physical models of reality during dreams, allowing imagination and creativity to flow freely. In this state, the input data may not be bound by the physical constraints of the real world, leading to the emergence of details and scenarios not typically encountered in waking life. Some argue that dreams can be regarded as a source of creativity. During sleep, the brain operates freely, showcasing thoughts, emotions, and images that may go unnoticed or unexplored during wakefulness. Dreams often involve nonlinear, richly imaginative ideas and narratives, which can sometimes inspire creative thinking and insights.

Many creative individuals, artists, and scientists claim to have been inspired or gained insights from their dreams. Occasionally, the visual, auditory, or emotional experiences in dreams can directly influence an individual's creative thought process, providing new ideas, problem-solving methods, or artistic inspiration.

In the process of training computer models, it seems that we have only focused on the "awake" aspects, such as training the model with correct, reality-conforming content, but neglected to leave room for the computer to "dream." Similar to human dreams, introducing this "dreaming" space into the training process of computer models may lead to some unexpected and fascinating results. This nonlinear and non-logical training process could result in the emergence of novel ideas, associations between seemingly unrelated pieces of information, or even the creation of entirely new concepts or problem-solving methods.

Moreover, dreams have a crucial characteristic: events in dreams are not subject to punishment in the "real" world, allowing for more daring actions within dreams. In the real world, training data and tasks are often subject to certain limitations and constraints, requiring models to learn and perform within these boundaries. However, within the "dreaming" space, models can be liberated to explore various bold actions and ideas without fear of real-world consequences. By introducing this unrestricted, punishment-free learning space, we can stimulate the creativity and exploratory spirit of models, enabling them to propose fresh ideas, solutions, or approaches. This method may empower models with greater flexibility and autonomy, allowing them to better tackle complex real-world problems and challenges.
