---
layout: post
title: Computers&#58 Ardent Fans of Memes
date: 2024-01-03 00:00:00-0000
categories: bookreviews
---

When exploring the essence of computer learning, it's essential to consider the sources of information that computers encounter and learn from, which include human behavior, thoughts, and culture. Because computers cannot learn the basic elements of human physiology, such as eating and reproduction, the content they learn may be more akin to "memes".

"Memes" refer to units similar to genes in cultural transmission. They are the basic units of thought, behavior, or cultural transmission. Just as genes play a crucial role in biological evolution, memes also play a similar role in cultural evolution. Memes can be a piece of text, an image, a song, or even a behavioral pattern, and they spread and influence populations through replication and transmission.

Considering that computers primarily learn and process information from text, images, audio, and other data, they are more likely to encounter and understand memes in culture rather than basic physiological elements. Therefore, it can be argued that computers are actually learning memes, as they understand and mimic human behavior and thought by learning and analyzing information from culture.

This perspective also helps explain the success of computers in fields such as natural language processing, image recognition, and audio processing, as these domains are rich in cultural transmission and meme content.

There is no evidence to prove that history progresses for the benefit of humanity because there is no objective standard for benefit. Different cultures have different definitions of "good," and there are no objective standards either. Some scholars even argue that culture is like a mental infection or parasite, and humans are unwitting hosts. Parasites or viruses reproduce and spread within hosts, depriving them of nutrients and sometimes even causing death. According to this view, culture is not a conspiracy designed by some people to exploit others, but rather a psychological parasite that began to exploit all infected individuals after appearing.

This view is sometimes referred to as memetics. Memetics assumes that, just as biological evolution is based on genes, cultural evolution is based on memes. So-called successful cultures are those that are particularly good at replicating their memes, regardless of the cost or benefit to their human hosts, such as the development of weapons.

So from this perspective, we cannot prove that the content learned by computers is good. :laughing:
